[Music]
shopping usually involves one of two
options
go to the store or buy it online
these days more and more people are
opting for the box on their doorstep
which is putting a squeeze on
traditional and mortar retail
but when online shopping can't quite
deliver
you need to go to the store
the experience can be frustrating
and disappointing
online or offline
these cannot be the only options
well in china a new form of retail is
taking shape that's combining the best
of both online and offline retail
alibaba the company best known for its
online marketplace is leading the way
for them the future isn't total
domination of e-commerce
rather it's the complete digitization of
all commerce that could be the key to
saving traditional retail the company
simply refers to this as new retail
it's already helping even the most
traditional retail models adapt to a new
digital world in unexpected creative
ways
why not start with the supermarket let's
face it no one really enjoys the process
of grocery shopping but ordering online
isn't perfect either some things you
want to pick yourself and life can
always accommodate a delivery window
enter huma alibaba is designed from
scratch grocery store for modern times
customized the way consumers want to
shop for food
the shopping experience is powered by
your mobile phone scan and find out what
you're buying
you can buy groceries
or eat in with the freshest seafood
that's instantly prepared for you
and best of all you can have your
groceries and cooked seafood all
delivered to you in as quickly as 30
minutes if you're lucky enough to live
within a three kilometer radius of hema
that's because every hummus store
doubles as a distribution center the
model is so popular in china that people
are actually moving to live near homo
locations
another traditional sales model that's
getting an alibaba new retail upgrade
buying cars
big showrooms and lots
that process was designed decades ago it
forces you to spend a lot of time going
here and there one dealer to another
well alibaba is working to redesign the
experience
bringing many brands of cars to the
consumers to try without the sales
pressure
behold the auto vending machine
the so-called vending machine model
allows consumers to browse models on
their smartphones and select the ones
they want to test drive in and out
experience the car first
then talk to the salesperson
even the local mom and pop convenience
stores can get a new retail makeover
these stores which are the lifeblood of
many communities
probably haven't changed much since the
mid-80s and aren't as convenient as they
need to be for today's shoppers meet the
huang's the proud owners of this
convenience store in hangzhou china
their store used to look like this
now it looks like this
but the real transformation is the store
has gone digital
alibaba created a special mobile app
which provides the huang's consumer
analytics of their store
they can then use the app to order the
items most likely to sell directly from
one source and avoid having to deal with
multiple distributors this means the
shop in your neighborhood is more likely
to have what you are looking for
for the ultimate new retail test let's
head to
the mall yes the one that everyone
predicts is dying
alibaba is up for this challenge too and
has even been investing in some of
china's biggest shopping malls
you buy a pair of jeans
but it's not the right fit and your size
isn't in stock
no problem this store is fitted out with
a virtual shelf
just select the one you want
scan with your tmall app
and have it delivered to your home no
need to stand in line at the checkout
even a pit stop to the ladies room can
be a new retail experience
while you wait check yourself out in the
magic mirror and experiment with new
makeup colors
virtually
like what you see
buy it from vending machines and freshen
up your look
[Music]
from ladies room to makeup lounge
the possibilities for new retail are
endless once you erase the lines between
online and offline and re-imagine it
based on the way consumers actually want
to shop
the key to saving traditional retail is
to forget about tradition all together